I'm not gonna say
the circle is complete yet,
because I still want to
be able to push stuff.
Holding down the button and
refreshing the page is fine.
I think what I would rather do
is now press the button and
watch something change on the page.
I think that is gonna give me the warm
emphasis in a deeper and nicer way.
So, going into that, and
again, the for a lot of these,
the only difference in those folders,
is a slightly different HTML file.
[LAUGH] All right?
Or some setup, right?
So we've got that, we are going into
this button and sockets over here
Cd../button with sockets.
Nope, and sockets.
Cool.
If we go into this directory, again,
the major difference here is a slightly
different HTML file where I'm going to
now be able to just show live, whether or
not the button has been pressed or not.
That is the large difference in this
case between that and the previous file.
So we'll kind of bring this all together
cuz now once we have the ability
to go in both directions,
we can start to have some real fun and
who doesn't like to have real fun?
I mean, if anyone has anti real
fun like please let me know now,
I think that's an important note.
Only new things in here that
nobody wanted to watch me type
where some of you have
probably experienced that.
One time, you could just send post
requests to Express and everything worked.
And then another time, they decided to
take out the ability to parse a JSON body
and put it into its own library and
made you add it back in every time.
So, I've got that in here.
Other than that, it's just a create board.
And then we've also set up Socket.io.
For those of you not familiar,
Socket.io is a super great WebSocket
library that basically, again,
makes working with WebSockets easy.
So we're just kind of taking, and this is
one of the reasons why I like doing a lot
of this stuff with Node, because you do
get the entire power NPM ecosystem, right?
One, also like as a JavaScript developer,
I can write JavaScript faster in C++.
And two,
the idea that I can pull in all of these
libraries that are kind of custom,
bespokely built for creating really cool
web things and tie them all together.
And then adding in a lot of this
hardware stuff as the PC resistance,
if you will, to put it all together.
A lot of this is just the boilerplate for
me,
right now other than creating and
waiting for the board,
all of this is very much just
boilerplate Express and Socket.IO.
And to be clear, for this part,
I have to look it up every single time.
So I just didn't want to so
here it is kind of done for us,
because I can't handle that kind of stuff.
Cool.
So right now if I look at my board,
I've got a button wired up at two and
I've got that LED at 11.
So we're gonna kind of start with that
as our kind of like basis in this case.
I don't have a lot that I need
to do with the LED just yet.
Let's start with that
button that we had before.
So the button is gonna be a new five
button that is gonna be a tube and
we've got that in place now,
we don't necessarily care that
is pressed what we wanna do is,
so it's not gonna do we know
when a browser connects to us.
And so we're gonna need that.
I could make another one
of those wait events, but
we wanna make sure that we've got
the socket connection at all for starters.
So I'm gonna just do
this io.on connection.
And before we worry too
much about the button,
we're just gonna make sure that we've got
our web sockets hooked up appropriately
because it would be really sad.
If we went through working with
the Johnny-five stuff for the button, and
then we found out that I messed up
just the basic web socket stuff.
So let's doll out our like happy
dopamine hits one at a time here.
And so, that's not the appropriate emoji.
Hold on.
Where is it?
There we go, a plug when we have
a socket connection established and
then we'll just kind of on a disconnect,
we'll send that back.
I don't even care about that right now.
So the socket is going to be
the individual browser that is connected
to our WebSocket server in this case.
And this point, we're just simply gonna
make sure that we've got that connection
which at first we will not see because we
have not written any of the client side
code yet, right?
So we will need that but this will get the
server piece in place first and foremost.
So we're gonna go ahead and
have that client right now we've just got
that button state is a span that
should be the words on or off.
So we'll get that in place as well.
And so we've got this button state.
Let's go ahead and
just figure out whether or
not we've got something set up and
ready to go at this point.
So same kind of basic idea,
which is Socket.IO has both the client
side and a server side library.
So we can pull in IO from,
it's slightly different than Socket.IO.
At this point it is, yeah.
Which one do you think it is?
Wanna take a lucky guess
which one goes on the client?
That's right.
[LAUGH] I'm gonna just
take the smiling and
nodding to assume that
it was the client one.
And then we just get an instance of that.
Very similar to what we did on the server,
but
this will just give us
that socket connection.
And we'll say socket.on connect.
Let's see if I can spell
right socket.on connect.
Let's go ahead and just say
Set up on the client side.
And this should hopefully
just make sure that
we've got everything in
place in either direction.
All right, so what I shouldn't be able
to do now is I pull up my terminal,
I'm just gonna do node index.js.
So nothing special happening in here.
Unless I have a giant error message.
The board starts up.
Server starts,
I'm gonna go grab it in Chrome.
The button is currently off.
If I press the button,
it will stay off because there is
no code to update that at all.
So ideally, when the button is happening,
rather than before we were going and
hitting a request and that was telling
us whether the button was on or off,
right now, I wanna press that button
I wanna see the webpage change.
I don't wanna ask if the button is there.
I just wanna press the button.
And I wanna see, right?
And so we kind of have to take a bunch of
the stuff that we've done previously and
tie it all together.
So we'll go back in server and
say, all right when the button
is pressed,
we're gonna wanna do is send a message
to a given socket that we
are ready to rock and roll.
So we'll say when we've got the socket,
we'll say the reason I've
got two socket connections is
because Safari is still running.
So button on, on down.
So I can emit button down.
I like it, yeah.
And then button on up.
Well, we'll say that the button went up,
so basically, the server will now listen
to Johnny Five for those events on whether
or not the button is being pressed or not.
And it's going to send
a message to any and
all connected browsers that
the button is pressed or not.
So if I could have a ton of windows open,
they would all receive the message.
They don't do anything
with that message yet.
But then they can theoretically
all see the DOM together.
So we'll have that in place.
So here we're just saying
when the button goes down,
admit that the button went down.
And when the button comes back up
we'll admit that the button went up.
Actually, if I wanted to buttons
currently off, I like up and down more so
we'll probably change this cuz I'm
gonna make some like very pedantic
decisions in the heat of the moment.
So now in that client code, we can
listen for those two things as well.
So we've got that connection here.
And we're just gonna say
socket on any message.
We have different channels and messages,
we don't really care that much.
Whenever we get a message from the server,
let's start out by just console,
logging the message.
We'll build up from there.
So ideally, I don't know if I
have to kill the server or not.
We'll find out together.
Yep, I will actually want that.
Let's park it in digitalized bottom right.
Cool, we're set up on the client side.
I might have to kill that server because I
think I changed the server code as well,
so we'll do that.
Awesome.
Nope, I guess nothing just yet,
so let's check it out.
What we've got going on.
>> I have it listening to button and
then it is doing it on the client side.
So instead of message,
I just switch that to button.
And it started getting
the button messages.
>> On the button channel, or?
>> So it admits button.
>> Yeah, cuz I'm sitting on the button
channel, and so instead of just
admitting it or sending it, I actually put
it on the button channel, you're right.
So this one right here?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, silly,
let's go back to my console log.
There it is.
Silly typing, this is why you should
pair program with like six of your
friends simultaneously because as
you were talking and coding and
you make silly boo boos you have friends
that will catch you and help you out.
Okay, so now we just need to
basically tie it all together,
which is to say, instead of logging
into the console, we'll say,
We'll just change that.
Let's not totally [LAUGH] make our
lives worse than they need to be.
All right, moment of truth.
I can press the button as it goes up and
down, the website changes.
So now the Arduino go all the way
through node all the way to my browser.
So now we've got a bunch
of different sensors.
Like I said before, the Arduino starter
kit comes with temperature sensors,
light sensors, a tilt sensor,
which is exercise,
sometimes in frustration, but
like it's there, a bunch of these sensors
that can now theoretically emit the stuff
that we can see in the browser.
And from the browser,
we can go all the way to the board, right?
So now we've got the entire power
of the web and all of its API's.
And we've got the ability to do to do
stuff from the other direction as well.